Hence he will yield to his father, willingly, in all pleasant things; but painful things he will take upon himself in preference to his father. Who, then, would not pray to the gods to have such a son? And who, having one, would not cherish him, through whom it would fall to him to be an enviable and blessed father in the eyes of all right-minded people? But if, young man, even being such as you will certainly be if you truly practice philosophy, you should not bring your father round, nor persuade him to permit you and allow you to do these things, consider this: your father forbids you to study philosophy; but the common father of all, of men and of gods alike, Zeus, commands and urges you to do so. For it is his command and his law that a man be just, kind, beneficent, self-controlled, high-minded, superior to hardships, superior to pleasures, free of all envy and all treachery; or, to put it briefly, the law of Zeus commands that a man be good. And being good is the same as being a philosopher. If, then, by obeying your father you are going to follow a man, but by practicing philosophy you are going to follow Zeus, it is clear that you ought rather to practice philosophy, and not the reverse. But, by Zeus, your father will confine you and keep you shut up, so that you may not practice philosophy. Perhaps he will do this; yet he will not keep you from practicing philosophy against your will. For we do not practice philosophy with the hand or the foot or with the rest of the body, but with the soul, and with a small part of it, which indeed we call the mind. And this the god has established in the most secure place, so that it is invisible and cannot be seized, and beyond all necessity, free and its own master. And besides, if it happens to be good, your father will not be able to prevent you either from using your mind, or from thinking what you ought, or from being pleased by honorable things and not pleased by shameful ones; nor, again, from choosing the one and avoiding the other. And by doing these things you would at once be practicing philosophy, and it will not be necessary for you either to wear a rough cloak by all means, or to go about without a tunic, or to let your hair grow long, or to depart from the common practice of the many. For though these things too befit philosophers, it is not in these that practicing philosophy consists, but in thinking what one ought and in reasoning rightly.