For others, whose bodies were in poor condition through softness and luxury, exile has given strength, since they were compelled to live in a more manly fashion; and we know of some who were freed from chronic diseases in exile, as, for instance, that Spartan of Lacedaemon, who for a long time had a diseased side and on account of it was often ill because of his luxurious living, but once he ceased living luxuriously he ceased also to be sick. And others among those who lived softly, they say, were freed from gout, though before they had been severely afflicted by that ailment; and exile, by accustoming them to live more austerely, prepared them by that very means to become healthy. Thus, then, with respect to bringing them into a better condition of both body and soul, exile works with people rather than against them.

But it is by no means the case that those in exile must lack the necessities of life. For those who are idle and helpless and incapable of acting like men, these for the most part lack resources and are helpless even when they are in their own fatherland; but those who are noble and industrious and intelligent, wherever they happen to go, find abundant resources and pass their lives without want. For indeed we do not even need much, unless we wish to live in luxury; since "What do mortals need but two things only, the grain of Demeter and a drink of water, which are at hand and are naturally suited to nourish us?" And I say that men worthy of consideration would easily obtain not only the most necessary things for life when they are away from their own land, but often would also acquire much wealth. Odysseus, at any rate, though he was in a condition more wretched, one might say, than any exile—being alone and naked and shipwrecked—nevertheless, when he came to men who were strangers to him, the Phaeacians, was able to obtain wealth in abundance. And Themistocles, when he was in exile from his home, coming not merely among those who were not his friends, but even among enemies and barbarians, the Persians, received three cities as a gift, Myus and Magnesia and Lampsacus, so as to live off them. And Dion of Syracuse, though he had been deprived of his entire property by Dionysius the tyrant when he was driven out of his fatherland, so abounded in wealth during his exile that he even maintained a foreign army, with which he came against Sicily and freed it from the tyrant.