For the one who eats more than he ought is doing wrong, and the one who hurries in his eating no less so, and the one who defiles himself with delicacies more than is fitting, and the one who prefers the more pleasant foods to the more healthful, and the one who does not distribute equal portions to those eating with him. And there is yet another error concerning food, when we take it at the wrong time, and, though we ought to be doing something else, we set that aside and eat. Since, then, there are so many errors—and still others—concerning food, the person who intends to be self-controlled must keep clear of them all and be liable to none of them. And one would keep clear and be free of error by training and accustoming oneself to choose food not in order to take pleasure but in order to be nourished, not in order to gratify the palate in swallowing but in order to strengthen the body. For swallowing came into being to be a passage for nourishment, not an instrument of pleasure, and the stomach exists for the same purpose for which the root also came into being in every plant. For just as there the root nourishes the plant by taking its nourishment from what is outside, so the stomach nourishes the living being from the foods and drinks brought into it. And just as it happens that these are nourished for the sake of continued existence and not for pleasure, so likewise for us food is both life and medicine. Therefore it is fitting for us to eat in order to live, not in order to take pleasure, if indeed we are to follow that excellent saying of Socrates, who said that most people live in order to eat, but he himself ate in order to live. For surely no one who wishes to be a decent human being will think it right to be like the many and to live for the sake of eating, as they do, hunting after the pleasure from food by every means.

And that God, who made the human being for the sake of preservation, not for the sake of pleasure, provided foods and drinks for people—this one may learn best from the following. For indeed, when food most of all performs its own work, it in no way gives the person pleasure, that is, during digestion and assimilation; rather, we are then nourished and strengthened by it, but at that time we feel no pleasure at all, even though this period of time is longer than the one in which we eat.