One cannot say that there is. But if someone is a good man, would he not also be a philosopher? Yes, by Zeus, if indeed philosophizing is the pursuit of nobility and goodness. So the good king is at once, of necessity, found to be a philosopher as well. And moreover, that the philosopher too is altogether kingly, you might learn in this way. For it surely belongs to the kingly man to be able to govern nations and cities well and to be worthy to rule over human beings. And who could be either a more capable protector of a city or more worthy to rule over human beings than the philosopher? For it befits him — provided he is truly a philosopher — to be prudent, self-controlled, high-minded, a good judge of what is just and of what is fitting, effective in carrying out what he has resolved, steadfast in hardships; and in addition to these he would be confident, fearless, able to withstand what seem to be terrors, and still further, beneficent, kind, humane. Of such a man, who could be found more suited or more able to rule? No one. And if he does not have many who obey and are persuaded by him, he is not for that reason deprived of being kingly; for it is enough even to rule over one's friends who are at hand, or a wife and children, or, by Zeus, even oneself alone. For the physician is no less a physician who treats a few than the one who treats many, if indeed he has the physician's skill; and the musician is no less a musician who teaches a few than the one who teaches many, if indeed he has music; and the horseman likewise, the one who makes use of one or two horses is no less a horseman than the one who makes use of many, provided he is knowledgeable in horsemanship; and so too the kingly man, the one who has one or two who are persuaded by him is a king in the same way as the one who has acquired many subjects: only let him have the skill of ruling, and he would be kingly. For this reason it seems to me that Socrates too calls philosophy the political and kingly science, because the one who has taken it up is at once a statesman.

When Musonius had said such things, the king, delighted with the discourse, acknowledged that he was grateful for what had been said to him, and in return for these things, he said, ask of me whatever you wish, for I would not refuse you in anything. Musonius then said, I ask you to conform to and follow these arguments which you praise; for in this way you will most of all gratify me, and you yourself will be benefited in no other way more.