The orators, at any rate, whenever they come into the same place as the philosophers and give and receive an argument, one may see them thrown into confusion and at a loss, forced to contradict themselves. And yet, whenever the orators — those who have made it their work to practice speeches — are shown to be weaker in argument than the philosophers, what should we suppose about the rest of humankind? Hence, if any king has a desire for supremacy in argument, he must pursue philosophy, so that on this ground too he need not fear anyone as likely to get the better of him, since it is fitting that the king be everywhere fearless and confident and unconquered.

But in general, the good king must of all necessity be, in word and in deed, without fault and complete, if indeed he is to be, as the ancients supposed, a living law, contriving good order and concord, warding off lawlessness and faction, an emulator of Zeus and, like him, a father to those he rules. But how could anyone be such a man unless he was endowed with a superior nature, educated in the best education, and possessed of all the virtues that befit a human being? Now if there is also some other branch of knowledge that guides a human being's nature toward virtue and teaches him to train in and pursue what is noble, then it would have to be set side by side and compared — whether that one or philosophy is the stronger and more sufficient to produce a good king; and the king, if indeed he wishes to be good, would reasonably make use of the stronger. But if no other art even claims to hand down and to teach virtue — but some are concerned only with the human body and what is useful to it, while those that do touch upon the soul examine everything more than the source from which it will attain self-control — and philosophy alone examines this and contrives this, namely, how a human being might escape vice and acquire virtue: if this is how these things stand, what could be more advantageous for a king, at least for one who wishes to be good, than to pursue philosophy? Rather, how and in what manner could anyone reign or live nobly, unless he pursued philosophy? For my part, I think that the good king is at once, of necessity, also a philosopher, and that the philosopher is at once also kingly.

But let us first consider the former point. Is there any way in which someone could be a good king without being a good man?