When a discussion once arose as to whether sons and daughters ought to be given the same education, he said: Trainers of horses and dogs make no distinction whatever in the training of males and females; for female dogs are taught to hunt just as the males are, and if one wishes horses, whether female, to perform the work of horses well, one may see them taught no different a training from the males. But when it comes to human beings, must the males somehow have some special thing in their education and upbringing beyond the females — as though the same virtues did not need to belong equally to both, to man and woman alike, or as though it were possible to arrive at the same virtues not through the same lessons but through different ones? That there are not one set of virtues for a man and another for a woman is easy to learn. In the first place, a man must have practical wisdom, and so too must a woman; for what use would there be in a man or a woman without practical wisdom? Next, both must live justly, neither less than the other; for a man would not be a good citizen if he were unjust, and a woman would not manage her household well unless she did so justly, but being unjust she will wrong her own husband, as they say Eriphyle did. Again, it is admirable for a woman to have self-control, and equally admirable for a man; for the laws punish committing adultery and submitting to adultery on equal terms. And greediness, and drunkenness, and other like evils, being acts of intemperance and greatly disgracing those caught up in them, show that self-control is most necessary for every human being, both female and male; for it is through self-control alone that we escape intemperance, and in no other way.

As for courage, one might perhaps say that it belongs to men alone. But this is not so either. For the best woman too must be manly and free of cowardice, so as to be bent neither by toil nor by fear; otherwise, how will she still have self-control, if someone, whether by frightening her or by bringing toils upon her, can compel her to endure some shameful thing? And indeed women must also be able to defend themselves, unless, by Zeus, they mean to show themselves worse than hens and other female birds, which fight for their chicks against animals far larger than themselves. How then would women not have need of courage? And that they have a share also in the strength that comes through arms was shown by the race of the Amazons, who subdued many nations by arms; so that if this is somewhat lacking in other women, it is due rather to lack of training than to nature.