And in fact the furnishings of the household appear to be in harmony with, and akin to, extravagance in houses: couches and tables and coverlets and drinking cups and anything of that sort, when they go far beyond need and advance past what is necessary. Couches of ivory and silver, or, by Zeus, of gold; tables of similar material; coverlets dyed purple and other colors hard to obtain; drinking cups made of gold and silver, and some of stones or of certain stone-like materials that rival the silver and gold ones in costliness. And all these things are eagerly pursued, though a simple cot provides us with a resting place no worse than the silver or ivory couch, and a goatskin is quite sufficient to lie upon, so that there is no need of purple or scarlet cloth. It is possible for us to eat without harm from a wooden table, so as in no way to long for the silver one; and, by Zeus, to drink from earthenware cups, which by their nature quench thirst just as well as the golden ones, and do not spoil the wine poured into them, and in fact give off a more pleasant smell than the golden and silver ones. In general, the merit and defect of furnishings might rightly be judged from these three things: their acquisition, their use, and their upkeep. For whatever is either troublesome to acquire, or not suitable for use, or not easy to keep safe—these are worse; but the things that we both acquire without difficulty, and commend as easy to use, and keep safe without trouble—these are better. This is why earthenware and iron things, and all such as these, are far better than the silver and gold ones: because their acquisition is easier, in proportion as it is also cheaper; their use is greater, because we can readily set them on the fire, whereas we cannot the others; and their safekeeping is less demanding, for cheap things are less exposed to plots than costly ones. And since cleaning is also part of safekeeping, this too is greater in the case of costly things. Therefore, just as a horse bought for a small price but providing many services is more to be chosen than one that does little work but was purchased at a high price, in the same way the cheaper and more serviceable furnishings are better than their opposites. Why, then, are the rare and costly things pursued in preference to the ordinary and the cheap?