Again, when an old man asked what would be the best provision for old age, he said: The same as for youth — to live methodically and in accordance with nature. And you would best learn what this is like if you consider that human nature has not come into being for the sake of pleasure. For neither the horse nor the dog nor the ox, which are far less honorable than a human being, has come into being for the sake of pleasure. For a horse would not be thought to attain its own end by eating and drinking and mating without restraint, while doing none of the things that befit a horse. Nor a dog by enjoying, like the horse, all pleasures, while doing none of the things by which dogs are held to be good. Nor indeed any other animal whatsoever, deprived of the work that befits it, but filled with pleasures. Nothing, then, would be said to live in accordance with nature in this way, but rather in whatever way it most displays virtue through the things it does in accordance with its own nature. For the nature of each thing leads each toward its own virtue. So it is likely that a human being too lives in accordance with nature not when he lives in pleasure, but when he lives in virtue. For then it would belong to him to be justly praised, to think highly of himself, and to be hopeful and confident — things which necessarily are followed by good cheer and steadfast joy. And in general the human being is, among earthly beings, the only imitation of God, and has virtues similar to his. For not even among the gods can we suppose anything to be superior to practical wisdom and justice, and further to courage and self-control. Just as, then, God, through the presence of these virtues, is unconquered by pleasure, unconquered by greed, superior to desire, superior to envy and jealousy, and is magnanimous and beneficent and loving toward humankind — for such is the God we conceive — so too the human being, as the imitation of God, must be regarded, when he is in accordance with nature, as being in a similar condition, and, being in this condition, as enviable. And being enviable, he would at once be happy as well; for we envy none other than the happy.