A certain young man, whom his father was preventing from studying philosophy, though he wished to do so, asked him something like this: "Tell me, Musonius, must one obey one's parents in all things, or are there some matters in which one may disregard them?" And Musonius said: "That each person should obey his own mother or father seems admirable, and I for my part commend it. But let us consider what obeying is; or rather, let us first examine what sort of thing disobeying is, and who the disobedient man is, and then in that way we shall better see what sort of thing obedience is. Come then: if a father who is not a physician, and has no experience of what is healthful and what is harmful, should command something to his sick son as beneficial, but the thing should be harmful and disadvantageous, and its being such should not escape the notice of the sick son, does that son, by not doing what was commanded, disobey and become disobedient? Surely not. And what if a father, being himself sick, should ask for wine or food at the wrong time, when, if he took it, it would make his illness worse, and the son, knowing this, should not give it — does he in that case disobey his father? One cannot say so. And much less, I think, would anyone say that man is disobedient who, having a greedy father and being ordered by him to steal or to defraud someone of a deposit, does not comply with the command. Or do you not think there are some fathers who give such orders to their own sons? For I myself know a man so wicked that, having a son in the bloom of youth, he sold his beauty. If, then, that youth who had been sold, when he was sent by his father into disgrace, refused and did not go, should we say the youth was disobedient, or that he was exercising self-control? Or is this not even worth asking? For indeed disobeying and the disobedient man are matters of reproach and disgrace; but not doing what one ought not to do is no disgrace, but rather praiseworthy. So that whether it be a father, or a magistrate, or, by Zeus, even a master whose command a man does not carry out, when that person commands things evil or unjust or shameful, he is by no means disobedient, just as he neither does wrong nor errs; rather, that man alone is disobedient who takes no thought for and disregards things commanded rightly and honorably and advantageously. Such, then, is the disobedient man; but the obedient man is his opposite and stands opposed to him: he would be the one who listens to and willingly follows the person who advises what is fitting — this man is obedient. Hence a person obeys his own parents when, they advising good things, he does these willingly. Yet I say that even if a person does what he ought and what is advantageous for himself when his parents are not advising it, this man too obeys his parents; and that I say this rightly, consider as follows.