Once, when one of the kings from Syria came to visit him — for at that time there were still kings in Syria subject to the Romans — he said many things to the man, and among them these. Do not suppose, he said, that it is more fitting for anyone else to pursue philosophy than for you, nor for any reason more than because you happen to be a king. For surely the king must be able to preserve and benefit human beings; and the one who is to preserve and benefit must understand what is good for a human being and what is bad, what is beneficial and what is harmful, and what is advantageous and what is disadvantageous. For it is those who fall into evils who are destroyed, while those who obtain good things are preserved; and those who are granted what is beneficial and advantageous are benefited, while those who are cast into what is disadvantageous and harmful are harmed. Now good and bad, or advantageous and disadvantageous, or beneficial and harmful, it belongs to no one else to discern than to the philosopher, who is continually occupied with precisely this, so as to be ignorant of not even one of these things, and has made it his art to know what leads toward a human being's happiness or unhappiness. For this reason it is evident that the king must pursue philosophy. And moreover it is fitting for the king — indeed it is necessary for him — to award to his subjects what is just, so that no one has more or less than his desert, but that those who deserve honor and those who deserve punishment obtain them. But how could anyone ever be able to do these things without being just? And how could anyone be just without understanding justice, what sort of thing it is? So here again the king must pursue philosophy, since he could not be shown to have come to know justice and the just in any other way, unless he pursued philosophy. For it cannot be said that the one who has learned will not know just things better than the one who has not learned, nor that all who have not pursued philosophy are not ignorant of such matters. At any rate, they quarrel and go to war with one another about what is just, some asserting that these things are more just, others that those are. And yet about the things people understand, they do not disagree: neither about what is white or black, nor hot or cold, nor soft or hard; but about these things everyone thinks and speaks in the same way. So they would likewise be in agreement about just things too, if indeed they knew what they are; but insofar as they do not agree, they are evidently ignorant.