Who, then, being of sound mind, looking to these examples, would still suppose that exile is a cause of poverty for all who are exiled? But neither is it at all necessary that those in exile fall into disrepute on account of their exile, since it is known to everyone that many suits are decided badly, and many are driven from their fatherland unjustly, and that already certain men who were good have been driven out by their fellow citizens—as Aristides the Just was from Athens, and Hermodorus from Ephesus, for whose exile Heraclitus even bade the Ephesians hang themselves, every man of them who had come of age. And indeed some who were most illustrious came to be so as exiles, such as Diogenes of Sinope and Clearchus the Lacedaemonian, who campaigned with Cyrus against Artaxerxes; and one could, if one wished, name many others as well. And yet how could that be a cause of disrepute in which some have become more highly regarded than they were before?

But, one might say, Euripides declares that exiles are deprived of freedom, since they are also deprived of freedom of speech. For he represents Jocasta asking her son Polynices what is hard about being an exile; and he answers that there is one thing greatest of all: he does not have freedom of speech; and she in turn says to him, "This that you describe is a slave's lot, not to say what one thinks." But I would say to Euripides: Euripides, in this you judge rightly, that it belongs to a slave not to say what he thinks, at least when it is necessary to say it—for we should not always and everywhere and to anyone at all say what we think. But this other thing you do not seem to me to have said well, that freedom of speech does not belong to those in exile—if by freedom of speech you mean not keeping silent about what one happens to think. For it is not those in exile who shrink from saying what they think, but those who fear that from speaking there may come to them hardship or death or punishment or something else of the sort. And this fear, by Zeus, is not produced by exile. For it belongs to many even of those who are in their own fatherland—indeed to most of them—to fear what seem to be dreadful things. But the courageous man, being an exile no less than at home, has confidence in the face of all such things, and therefore he says what he thinks with confidence no less when he happens to be an exile than when he is not an exile. This is what one might say to Euripides. But you, tell me, my friend: when Diogenes was an exile at Athens, or when, having been sold by pirates, he came to Corinth, did anyone at that time display more freedom of speech than Diogenes, whether Athenian or Corinthian? And what of this—was anyone else among the men of that time more free than Diogenes?