He, indeed—when Xeniades had bought him—ruled over the man who had purchased him as a master rules over a slave. But why should one speak of old examples? Do I not seem to you to be an exile? Have I then been deprived of freedom of speech? Have I been robbed of the liberty to say what I think? Have you ever seen me, or has anyone else, cowering before someone because I am in exile? Or thinking my affairs to be in a worse state now than before? On the contrary, by Zeus, you could not say that you had seen me grieved or downhearted on account of my exile. For even if a man has been deprived of his fatherland, he has not been deprived of the ability to bear exile.

The reasonings which I employ toward myself, so as not to be burdened by exile, these I would also state to you. It seems to me that exile does not by any means deprive a person even of those goods which most people consider goods, as I was just now showing. But even if it should deprive him of some or all of these, at any rate it does not deprive him of the goods that are truly good. For the exile is not prevented, by the fact that he is in exile, from possessing courage or justice, nor self-control or practical wisdom, nor again any other virtue whatever—the very things which, when present, naturally adorn and benefit a person and render him praiseworthy and of good repute, and which, when absent, harm and disgrace him, rendering him bad and of ill repute. This being so, if you are a good man and possess the virtues, exile would not harm you nor bring you low, since there are present in you the things most able to benefit and elevate you. But if you happen to be bad, it is your badness that harms you, and not exile; and it is your badness that brings grief upon you, not exile. Therefore you ought to hasten to be freed from this rather than from exile. This I have always said to myself, and I say it to you now. And you, if you are of sound mind, will not consider exile to be dreadful—which others bear easily—but rather badness, for by its presence everyone who has it is wretched. For indeed one of two things must be the case: either you are exiled unjustly or justly. If justly, then how could it ever be right or fitting to be burdened by what is just? But if unjustly, this would be an evil belonging to those who drove you out, not to us—if indeed, by Zeus, to do wrong is a thing most hated by the gods, which is what has befallen them; whereas to be wronged, which is what has befallen us, is held, both among the gods and among decent human beings, to be worthy of assistance, and not of hatred.