And you too, as I think, are not free of this ignorance. Therefore you must attend to this knowledge more than anyone else, and all the more so inasmuch as it is more shameful for a man who is a king than for a private person to be in ignorance of justice.

Furthermore, then, the king must himself be self-controlled, and he must make his subjects self-controlled, so that the one may rule with self-control and the others be ruled in an orderly way, and neither party live in luxury; for luxury is ruinous to a ruler and to every private person alike. But how could anyone be self-controlled himself without having practiced mastering his desires, or, being licentious, make others self-controlled? Yet what branch of knowledge leads toward self-control except philosophy, one cannot say; for it teaches one to be above pleasure, teaches one to be above greed, teaches one to cherish frugality, teaches one to flee extravagance, accustoms one to have a sense of shame, accustoms one to master the tongue, and instills order and discipline and decorum and, in general, what is fitting in movement and bearing. And these things, when they belong to a person, make him dignified and self-controlled. And indeed a king too, in whom these things are present, would most of all be worthy of a god and worthy of reverence. Now fearlessness and steadfastness and courage are the work of bravery, but how could these belong to a person in any other way more than if one gained a strong conviction about death and hardship, that they are not evils? For these are precisely the things that unsettle and frighten human beings — death and hardship — whenever they are convinced that they are evils; but that these are not evils philosophy alone teaches. So that if indeed bravery is to be acquired by kings, and to be acquired more than anything else whatever, they must attend to pursuing philosophy, since they could not become brave in any other way. And indeed it is kingly, if anything is, to be unconquered in argument and to be able to master, as with weapons those who fight, so with arguments those who dispute; for insofar as kings are weak in this respect, they must often be led astray and forced to admit what is false as true, which is the work of foolishness and of the utmost ignorance. And I do not know whether philosophy is naturally suited to provide anything more than this to those who pursue it, namely, to prevail in argument over those near them and to distinguish the false from the true and to refute the one and confirm the other.