When a discussion once arose about the demonstrations that young men ought to hear from philosophers in order to grasp what they are learning, Musonius said that it was not fitting to seek many demonstrations for each matter, but effective and clear ones. For that physician is not praiseworthy, he said, who administers many drugs to the sick, but the one who benefits them in a way worthy of note through the few things he administers. Nor is he a philosopher who teaches his hearers through many demonstrations, but the one who leads them through few to the point at which he aims. And the hearer, the more intelligent he is, so much the more quickly will he assent to the main point of the argument, provided it is sound. But whoever demands demonstration everywhere, even where matters are clear, or wishes to have proved to himself through many arguments what can be proved through few, is altogether absurd and slow to learn. Now it is reasonable that the gods need no demonstration for anything, since nothing is unclear or unknown to them, which is the only sort of thing that requires demonstrations. But human beings must seek to discover what is not evident and not immediately known through what is evident and manifest, which is exactly the task of demonstration. For example, that pleasure is not a good does not seem to be immediately known, since pleasure in fact invites us as though it were a good. But if someone takes the known premise that every good is worthy of choice, and adds to this another premise, likewise known, that some pleasures are not worthy of choice, we demonstrate that pleasure is not a good—through what is known, that which is not known. Again, that toil is not an evil does not immediately appear plausible; for the opposite of this seems more plausible, that toil is an evil. But when the evident premise is laid down, that every evil is to be avoided, and there is added to it the more evident one, that many toils are not to be avoided, the conclusion is reached that toil is not an evil . . . of the demonstration, since some human beings are sharper and others duller, and some have been reared in better habits, others in worse, and those of a worse character or nature would need more demonstrations and greater effort in order to receive these doctrines and be molded in accordance with them—just as, I think, unsound bodies too, when they are to be in good condition, require very great care. But those of the young who are better endowed and have shared in a better upbringing would assent to what is rightly said, and follow it, more easily and more quickly and through few demonstrations.