That marriage is a great and worthy object of concern is clear from this too: for the gods watch over it—those who are held among human beings to be great. First Hera, and for this reason we call her the goddess of the yoke; then Eros; then Aphrodite. For we suppose that all these have made it their work to bring man and woman together with one another for the begetting of children. Where indeed would Eros more rightly be present than at the lawful union of man and woman? Where would Hera? Where would Aphrodite? And when would anyone more fittingly pray to these gods than when going to be married? And what work, in calling it the work of Aphrodite, could we more properly call so than the union of a wife with the man who has married her? Why then, one might ask, do such great gods oversee and watch over marriage and the begetting of children, yet these things do not befit a human being? Or why is it that these things befit a human being, but do not befit the philosopher? Is it because the philosopher ought to be worse than other people? But he ought not; rather he ought to be better and more just and more noble. Or is it because a man who does not care for his own city is not worse and more unjust than one who does care for it, or the one who looks only to his own affairs than the one who considers the common good? Or because the one who chooses a solitary life is more a lover of his city and of humankind and more given to community than the one who manages a household and produces children and increases his own city—things which belong to the one who marries? That the philosopher, then, ought to attend to marriage and the begetting of children is clear. And if this befits him, how could that argument you were just now making be correct, young man—that marriage is an obstacle to the philosopher? For philosophizing manifestly is nothing other than to search out in argument what is proper and befitting, and to do it in deed. That, then, is the sort of thing he said on that occasion.