As for a charge of assault, he said that he himself would never bring one against anyone, nor would he advise any other man who claims to pursue philosophy to do so. For of the things that some people, when they suffer them, think of as an outrage, none is in fact an outrage or a disgrace to those who suffer them: for instance, being reviled, or struck, or spat upon, of which the most severe is being struck. That these things contain nothing shameful or insulting is shown, he said, by the boys of the Spartans, who are whipped in public and even take pride in this very thing. And if the philosopher cannot despise blows or abuse, what use would he be, seeing that he ought to appear to despise even death? "But by Zeus," someone says, "the intention of the one who does these things is terrible—to strike, or revile, or do some such thing while sneering and believing himself to be committing an outrage." Demosthenes at any rate thinks that some people commit an outrage even by a look, that such things are unbearable, and that people are driven out of their senses by them, one way or another. But it is those who are ignorant of what is truly noble and what is truly shameful, and who gape after reputation, who suppose that they themselves are outraged if someone either looks at them too sharply, or laughs at them, or strikes them, or reviles them. But a man of sound understanding and sense, such as the philosopher ought to be, is disturbed by none of these things, and does not think that suffering them is shameful, but rather that doing them is. For in what way does the one who suffers do wrong? He who does wrong is immediately also in disgrace, whereas the one who suffers—just as he does no wrong insofar as he suffers, so neither does he fall into any disgrace. Hence the man of sense would not proceed to lawsuits or accusations, since he would not even consider himself to have been outraged; for it is small-minded to be indignant or worked up about such matters. Rather, he will bear what has happened gently and calmly, since this too is fitting for a man who wishes to be great-souled. Socrates at any rate was clearly disposed in this way: when he was publicly reviled by Aristophanes, so far from being indignant, he even, upon meeting him, asked him whether he wished to make use of him for any other such purpose as well.