From this, I think, it follows reasonably that both female and male ought to be educated alike in whatever pertains to virtue. And beginning straightaway from infancy, they must be taught that this thing is good and that thing bad — the same being bad for both — and that this is beneficial and that harmful, and that this is to be done and that not to be done; from which practical wisdom arises in those who learn, in girls and boys alike, and in no way differently in the one than in the other. Next, a sense of shame toward everything disgraceful must be instilled in them; and when this is present, it is inevitable that both man and woman should be self-controlled. And indeed, whoever is rightly educated, be it male or female, must be habituated to endure toil, must be habituated not to fear death, must be habituated not to be cast down before any misfortune; by all of which one becomes courageous. And it was shown a little earlier that women too must have a share in courage. Furthermore, to flee greediness and to honor equality, and, being human, to wish to do good to other human beings and not to do them harm — this is the finest lesson, and it makes those who learn it just. But why should a man learn these things any more than a woman? For if, by Zeus, it is fitting that women be just, then both must have learned the same things, at least the most authoritative and greatest of them. But if in some small matter the one shall know something and the other not, or conversely the one shall know it and the other not — something belonging to some particular craft — this does not yet show the education of the two to be different; only let neither have learned different things from the other in any of the greatest matters, but the same things. And if anyone asks me what knowledge presides over this education, I shall say to him that, just as no man could be rightly educated without philosophy, so neither could any woman. And I do not mean by this that women must have precision in argument and some excessive cleverness, if indeed they are to philosophize as women; for I do not altogether commend this even in men. But I mean that women must acquire goodness of character and nobility of conduct; since philosophy too is nothing other than the practice of nobility of character.