And what woman could be more just than one who is disposed in this way? Moreover, it is fitting that the educated woman be more courageous than the uneducated, and the woman philosopher more than the untrained; that she should endure nothing shameful either through fear of death or through shrinking from hardship, and should cower before no one because he is well-born, or powerful, or wealthy, or even, by Zeus, because he is a tyrant. For it belongs to her to have practiced thinking greatly, and to consider death not an evil and life not a good; and likewise not to shun hardship and not to pursue freedom from hardship at all costs. Hence it is likely that such a woman is also industrious with her own hands and able to bear hardship, of the sort to nurse at her own breast the children she bears, to serve her husband with her own hands, and to do without hesitation the things that some consider fit only for slaves. Would not such a woman be a great benefit to the man who has married her, an ornament to her kinsfolk, and a good example to those who know her? But, by Zeus, some say that the women who take up with philosophers must for the most part become self-willed and bold, when, abandoning the keeping of the household, they turn to living among men and practice arguments and play the sophist and analyze syllogisms, though they ought rather to be sitting at home spinning wool. But I, for my part, would not think it right that even men who practice philosophy—let alone women—should abandon their proper tasks and be concerned with arguments alone; rather, I say that whatever arguments they take up, they should take up for the sake of deeds. For just as there is no benefit in an argument about medicine unless it leads to the health of the human body, so too, if a philosopher has or teaches some argument, there is no benefit in it unless it leads to the virtue of the human soul. Above all we must examine the argument which we think the women who practice philosophy should follow, to see whether it can make them bold—the argument which declares modesty the greatest good; whether it accustoms them to live more recklessly—the argument which prescribes the utmost restraint; whether it fails to teach self-control—the argument which shows intemperance to be the ultimate evil; whether it fails to urge them to manage the household—the argument which presents household management as a virtue. And the argument of the philosophers also calls upon the woman to be content . . . and to work with her own hands.