But we, he said, contrive various arts and devices so as to make the eating of our food more pleasant and to flatter our swallowing all the more. And we have advanced so far in daintiness and gluttony that, just as there are treatises on music and medicine, so certain people have composed treatises on cookery, which greatly increase the pleasure felt in the throat, but ruin one's health. At any rate, one may see that those who indulge in delicacies of food are far worse off in their bodies; and some of them resemble pregnant women with strange cravings. For these men too, just like those women, are disgusted with the most ordinary foods and have ruined stomachs. Hence, just as useless iron continually needs to be tempered, so too the stomachs of such people, while they eat, continually need to be sharpened, whether by strong wine, or by vinegar, or by some pungent food. But the Spartan was not such a man, who, when he saw someone before whom a bird of the fat and costly kind had been set, and who out of luxuriousness refused to eat it, declaring that he could not, said: "But I can eat even a vulture and a buzzard." And Zeno of Citium thought that not even when ill ought one to take more delicate food; but when the physician attending him ordered him to eat the young of a pigeon, he would not endure it, and said, "Treat me as you would Manes." For he claimed, I suppose, that in his treatment nothing softer should be done for him than for one of his slaves who was ill; for if they can be cured without taking more costly food, so, he held, could we. For the good man must in no way be softer than any slave. Therefore Zeno reasonably held that one should be on guard against extravagance in food, and not give way to such a thing even a little; since one who once gives way would advance very far indeed, seeing that pleasure has much room for increase both in drink and in food. These, then, were the somewhat novel things he seemed to us to say at that time about food, beyond what he was accustomed to say on every occasion.