Gluttony and gourmandizing, he said, are utterly shameful, and no one will dispute it; yet I have observed very few who take any care to avoid these things, while I see the majority craving such foods even when they are absent, unable to keep away from them when they are present, and, when they do partake of them, partaking without restraint, to the point of using them even to the harm of the body. And yet what could gluttony be but a lack of self-control regarding food, on account of which people prefer the pleasant in eating to the beneficial? And gourmandizing is nothing other than immoderation in the enjoyment of delicacies. Now, though immoderation is everywhere an evil, it is here above all that it reveals its own nature, producing gourmandizers who, in their voracity, resemble pigs or dogs rather than human beings, and who cannot conduct themselves decently—not with their hands, not with their eyes, not in their swallowing—so completely does the desire for the pleasure found in delicacies drive them out of their senses. That to be so disposed toward food is utterly shameful is plain, seeing that in it we come to resemble senseless animals rather than intelligent human beings. And since this is utterly shameful, the opposite would be most noble—to eat in an orderly and seemly manner, and to display self-control here first of all; this is not easy, but requires much attention and training. Why is this so? Because, although there are many pleasures that persuade a person to do wrong and force him to give in to them contrary to his advantage, the pleasure connected with food is likely to be the most difficult of all to combat. For with the other pleasures we have contact more rarely, and from some of them we are able to abstain for whole months and years, but this one it is absolutely necessary to experience every single day, and for the most part twice each day; for a person cannot live otherwise. And so, the more often we experience the pleasure in eating, the more numerous are the dangers here. Indeed, at each taking of food there is not one danger of going wrong, but several.