For the man who does what his father wishes and follows his father's wish obeys, I think, his father; but the man who does what he ought and what is better also follows his father's wish. In what way? Because all parents surely have goodwill toward their own children, and having goodwill they wish that whatever is necessary and advantageous should be done by them. Whoever, then, does what is fitting and advantageous does what his parents wish. And so, by doing these things, he obeys his parents, even if his parents do not order him in words to do them. This alone, then, is what the man who wishes to obey his parents ought to consider in each of his actions: whether what he is about to do is honorable and advantageous, and nothing else; for as soon as it is of such a kind, the very person who does it thereby obeys his parents. Do not, therefore, young man, be afraid that you will disobey your father, if, when your father commands things that are not fitting to do, you refrain from doing them, or, when he forbids things that are fitting, you refrain from not doing them. And do not let your father serve you as an excuse for going wrong, whether he commands something among the things that are not honorable to be done, or forbids something among the honorable things. For there is no necessity for you to carry out what is not well commanded; and this, I think, you yourself are not unaware of. Surely you would not put up with your father in matters of music, if he, having no understanding of music, should order you to strike the lyre unmusically; or if, though you know your letters, he who does not know them should order you to write and read not as you learned, but otherwise; nor indeed, if, though you know how to steer, he who is no pilot should order you to move the rudder as is not proper, would you heed him. What then? These things are so; but if your father should prevent you from studying philosophy, when you know and have heard what sort of thing philosophy is, while he himself is ignorant of it, ought you to heed him, or rather to teach him better, on the ground that he does not advise you well? To me it seems the latter. Now perhaps someone, using argument alone, might persuade his own father to think about philosophy as is fitting, provided the father is not utterly harsh in his nature. But if he should not be persuaded by argument nor follow it, still the very deeds of the son will altogether win him over, if the son truly practices philosophy. For one who practices philosophy will be most eager to serve his father with every kind of service, and most orderly and gentle, in his company least contentious or self-loving, and neither rash nor turbulent nor prone to anger; furthermore, he would be in control of his tongue, his belly, and sexual desires, and steadfast in the face of dangers and hardships; and most capable of understanding what is honorable, while not overstepping what appears honorable.