. . . the virtues of a man and a woman, then it is entirely necessary that the same upbringing and the same education should belong to both. For in the case of every animal and plant, the care that is rightly applied must produce in it the virtue proper to it. Or, if a man and a woman had to be able to play the flute alike, and if this were necessary to the life of each of them, we would teach both the art of flute-playing equally; and if each had to play the lyre, . . . But if both must become good in the virtue proper to a human being, and must be able alike to exercise practical wisdom, and to have self-control, and to share in courage and in justice, the one no less than the other, shall we not then educate each of them alike, and teach both equally the art from which a human being becomes good? Yet this is how it must be done, and not otherwise.

"What then?" someone perhaps says. "Do you expect men to learn spinning just as women do, and women to engage in physical exercise just as men do?" This I would no longer expect. But I say that, since in the human race the male nature is the stronger and the female nature the weaker, the most fitting tasks are to be assigned to each nature; the heavier tasks are to be given to the stronger, and the lighter to the weaker. For this reason spinning would be more fitting for women than for men, as would keeping the house; and physical exercise more fitting for men than for women, as would life out of doors. Nevertheless, sometimes even certain men might reasonably take up some of the lighter tasks, and those regarded as women's work; and women in turn might do some of the harder tasks, and those thought rather to belong to men, whenever their bodily condition, or need, or the occasion demands it. For perhaps all human tasks lie open in common and are shared by men and women, and none is of necessity set apart for the one or the other; yet some tasks are more suited to this nature, and others to that; and for this reason some are called men's work and others women's work. But whatever tasks have their reference to virtue — these, one might rightly say, belong equally to each nature, if indeed we say that the virtues too belong no more to the one than to the other.