When a certain exile was lamenting his exile, this, more or less, is how he consoled him. Exile, he said, how could anyone but a fool find it burdensome? It in no way cuts us off from water, earth, and air, nor indeed from the sun and the other stars, nor even from association with human beings, for everywhere and in every place we have a share of these things. And if we are deprived of some portion of the earth and of the company of certain people, what is dreadful about that? For even when we were at home we did not make use of the whole earth, nor were we in the company of all people. Yet even now we could still be with our friends—the true ones, at least, those of whom it is fitting to take some account—for these would never betray us nor abandon us. But if there are some who are counterfeit and not true friends, it is better to be rid of them than to be with them. And besides, is not the universe the common fatherland of all human beings, as Socrates held? So that, in truth, one must not regard oneself as exiled from one's fatherland if one departs from the place where one was born and raised, but only as deprived of a particular city—especially if one claims to be a reasonable person. For such a man neither honors nor dishonors any place as though it were the cause of happiness or misery; rather, he places the whole matter in himself, and considers himself a citizen of the city of Zeus, which is composed of human beings and gods. In agreement with these things Euripides too speaks, when he says: "All the air is a path for the eagle, and all the earth is fatherland to a noble man." Just as, then, someone who, while in his own fatherland but living in a house other than the one in which he was born, should suffer grievously on that account and lament, would be foolish and ridiculous, so too whoever, living in another city than the one in which he happened to be born, considers this a misfortune, such a man would reasonably be thought senseless and foolish. And indeed, with respect to care for oneself and to the acquisition of virtue, how could exile stand in the way? Since a person is barred by exile neither from learning what he ought nor from training in what he ought. How could exile fail even to assist toward such an end, providing as it does leisure and the opportunity to learn what is noble and to practice it more than before, seeing that we are neither dragged about by our supposed fatherland into political services nor troubled by supposed friends or kinsmen, who are apt to hinder us and drag us away from our impulse toward the better things? Indeed, for some, exile has proved entirely advantageous, as it did for Diogenes, who from a private citizen became a philosopher through exile; and instead of sitting idle in Sinope, he spent his time in Greece, and in the training that leads to virtue he surpassed the philosophers.